The libraries (libc, libm, libsubc++, libstdc++, libpthread) are all
redistributable both in source and binary form. Most of the
code is under an MIT style license and copyrighted by Parallax. Some
is public domain, some is BSD, and the C++ code and libgcc are GPL
with a special exception.

The copyright for most of the library code is:

 * Copyright (c) 2011 Parallax, Inc.
 * +--------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Â¦  TERMS OF USE: MIT License
 * +--------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files
 * (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
 * including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
 * publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
 * and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
 * subject to the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 * CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
 * TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
 * SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Some 32 bit floating point code is derived from Jonathon "lonesock"
Dummer's F32 package:

''        F32 - Concise floating point code for the Propeller
''        Copyright (c) 2011 Jonathan "lonesock" Dummer
''
''        Released under the MIT License (see above for details)

---------------------------------------------------------------------
The math libraries are based on the OpenBSD math libraries, which are
in turn based on fdlibm. The fdlibm copyright notice is:

 * ====================================================
 * Copyright (C) 1993 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
 *
 * Developed at SunPro, a Sun Microsystems, Inc. business.
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
 * software is freely granted, provided that this notice 
 * is preserved.
 * ====================================================

OpenBSD specific changes are under the BSD license:

 * Copyright (c) 1992, 1993 The Regents of the University of California
 * Copyright (c) 2003, 2007 Steven G. Kargl
 * Copyright (c) 2004 Matthias Drochner
 * Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 David Schultz <das@FreeBSD.ORG>
 * Copyright (c) 2008 Stephen L. Moshier <steve@moshier.net>
 * Copyright (c) 2008, 2011 Martynas Venckus <martynas@openbsd.org>
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
 *    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
 *    without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.


---------------------------------------------------------------------

The string library is mostly from Henry Spencer's string library,
posted to Usenet and placed by him in the public domain.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

The scanf functions and some of the string functions are from the
libnix library for the Amiga, written by Matthias Fleischer
and Gunther Nikl and placed in the public domain.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

The printf functions were based on code with the following copyright:
/*
 * Copyright (c) 1995 Patrick Powell.
 *
 * This code is based on code written by Patrick Powell <papowell@astart.com>.
 * It may be used for any purpose as long as this notice remains intact on all
 * source code distributions.
 */

/*
 * Copyright (c) 2008 Holger Weiss.
 *
 * This version of the code is maintained by Holger Weiss <holger@jhweiss.de>.
 * My changes to the code may freely be used, modified and/or redistributed for
 * any purpose.  It would be nice if additions and fixes to this file (including
 * trivial code cleanups) would be sent back in order to let me include them in
 * the version available at <http://www.jhweiss.de/software/snprintf.html>.
 * However, this is not a requirement for using or redistributing (possibly
 * modified) versions of this file, nor is leaving this notice intact mandatory.
 */

---------------------------------------------------------------------
A few stdio and miscellaneous functions are from the dLibs library by
Dale Schumacher, which is in the public domain and comes with the
following notice:
  I'd like to see these routines distributed as widely as possible as I
feel they will be a benefit to many people.  The only restriction I'd
like to place on the use of dLibs is this.  If you modify the source
code, please don't redistribute it under the name "dLibs".  I encourage
people to look at, play with, modify and improve the source code as
much as they want, and would gladly accept suggestions (preferrably
with source code) for changes/additions to dLibs.  I simply want to
avoid the problem of digressive versions of dLibs.

Some other functions are from the MiNT library, a derivative of
dLibs by Eric Smith and others, and also in the public domain.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The libgcc, libstdc++, and libsupc++ code is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation. The source code for these is in the gcc tree. The
exact copyright notice is:

   Copyright (C) 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
   2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010
   Free Software Foundation, Inc.

GCC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later
version.

GCC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

Under Section 7 of GPL version 3, you are granted additional
permissions described in the GCC Runtime Library Exception, version
3.1, as published by the Free Software Foundation.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License and
a copy of the GCC Runtime Library Exception along with this program;
see the files COPYING3 and COPYING.RUNTIME respectively.  If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

For PropGCC, these files are contained in the "gcc" directory; the
text of COPYING.RUNTIME is reproduced below:

GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION

Version 3.1, 31 March 2009

Copyright (C) 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.

This GCC Runtime Library Exception ("Exception") is an additional
permission under section 7 of the GNU General Public License, version
3 ("GPLv3"). It applies to a given file (the "Runtime Library") that
bears a notice placed by the copyright holder of the file stating that
the file is governed by GPLv3 along with this Exception.

When you use GCC to compile a program, GCC may combine portions of
certain GCC header files and runtime libraries with the compiled
program. The purpose of this Exception is to allow compilation of
non-GPL (including proprietary) programs to use, in this way, the
header files and runtime libraries covered by this Exception.

0. Definitions.

A file is an "Independent Module" if it either requires the Runtime
Library for execution after a Compilation Process, or makes use of an
interface provided by the Runtime Library, but is not otherwise based
on the Runtime Library.

"GCC" means a version of the GNU Compiler Collection, with or without
modifications, governed by version 3 (or a specified later version) of
the GNU General Public License (GPL) with the option of using any
subsequent versions published by the FSF.

"GPL-compatible Software" is software whose conditions of propagation,
modification and use would permit combination with GCC in accord with
the license of GCC.

"Target Code" refers to output from any compiler for a real or virtual
target processor architecture, in executable form or suitable for
input to an assembler, loader, linker and/or execution
phase. Notwithstanding that, Target Code does not include data in any
format that is used as a compiler intermediate representation, or used
for producing a compiler intermediate representation.

The "Compilation Process" transforms code entirely represented in
non-intermediate languages designed for human-written code, and/or in
Java Virtual Machine byte code, into Target Code. Thus, for example,
use of source code generators and preprocessors need not be considered
part of the Compilation Process, since the Compilation Process can be
understood as starting with the output of the generators or
preprocessors.

A Compilation Process is "Eligible" if it is done using GCC, alone or
with other GPL-compatible software, or if it is done without using any
work based on GCC. For example, using non-GPL-compatible Software to
optimize any GCC intermediate representations would not qualify as an
Eligible Compilation Process.

1. Grant of Additional Permission.

You have permission to propagate a work of Target Code formed by
combining the Runtime Library with Independent Modules, even if such
propagation would otherwise violate the terms of GPLv3, provided that
all Target Code was generated by Eligible Compilation Processes. You
may then convey such a combination under terms of your choice,
consistent with the licensing of the Independent Modules.

2. No Weakening of GCC Copyleft.

The availability of this Exception does not imply any general
presumption that third-party software is unaffected by the copyleft
requirements of the license of GCC.

